The task is to determine whether two news articles cover the same news story. The goal of this task is to create a system that identify multilingual news articles that contain similar information. This is a pairwise similarity task in the applied domain of news articles, rated on a1 to 4-point scale from most to least similar. Here, we are interested in the real worldhappenings covered in the news articles, not their style of writing, political spin, tone, or any other more subjective "design decision" imposed by a medium/outlet.
Every day, thousands of new news articles are published in various languages. Understanding which articles refer to the same story not only improves applications such as news aggregation, but also allows for cross-linguistic analysis of media consumption and attention. However, assessing the similarity of stories in news articles is difficult due to the various dimensions in which a story may differ; for example, two articles may have significant textual overlap but describe similar events that occurred years apart. To address this challenge, a new dataset of nearly 10,000 news article pairs annotated for seven dimensions of similarity spanning 18 language combinations.
This task's potential applications are limitless. The task reduces the mundane task of tracking the similarity of news coverage across different outlets or regions. Monitoring and containment of infectious disease outbreaks, for example, has remained a critical component of public health strategy to contain the diseases, whether previously with Ebola or recently with the COVID-19 pandemic. The ability to accurately track disease outbreaks is critical in the deployment of effective intervention measures. As a result, reports may not only be in English, but effective multilingual systems are also required. As a result, recent research has concentrated on identifying similarities between documents, phrases, stories, and so on.The challenges faced in this task can be understood by the questions that necessitates knowledge of specific aspects of the events covered, such as what occurred, where and when it occurred, who was involved, and why and how it occurred. Solutions should also not overly rely on general language models, since firstly, stylistic similarity, generic phrases or other nonessential content might be misleading and secondly, dimensions like time and geolocation of the actual event (not the publication time or place) as wells as narrative are not straightforward to capture.
